---
layout: base
title: Plyr 1.5
---

NEW FEATURES

* new `strip_splits` function removes splitting variables from the data frames
 returned by `ddply`.

* `rename` moved in from reshape, and rewritten.

* new `match_df` function makes it easy to subset a data frame to only contain
 values matching another data frame. Inspired by
 http://stackoverflow.com/questions/4693849.

BUG FIXES

* `**ply` now works when passed a list of functions

* `*dply` now correctly names output even when some output combinations are
 missing (NULL) (Thanks to bug report from Karl Ove Hufthammer)

* `*dply` preserves the class of many more object types.

* `a*ply` now correctly works with zero length margins, operating on the
 entire object (Thanks to bug report from Stavros Macrakis)

* `join` now implements joins in a more SQL like way, returning all possible
 matches, not just the first one. It is still a (little) faster than merge.
 The previous behaviour is accessible with `match = "first"`.

* `join` is now more symmetric so that `join(x, y, "left")` is closer to
 `join(y, x, "right")`, modulo column ordering

* `named.quoted` failed when quoted expressions were longer than 50
 characters. (Thanks to bug report from Eric Goldlust)

* `rbind.fill` now correctly maintains POSIXct tzone attributes and preserves
 missing factor levels

* `split_labels` correctly preserves empty factor levels, which means that
 `drop = FALSE` should work in more places. Use `base::droplevels` to remove
 levels that don't occur in the data, and `drop = T` to remove combinations
 of levels that don't occur.

* `vaggregate` now passes `...` to the aggregation function when working out
 the output type (thanks to bug report by Pavan Racherla)